1	25/4/2026 22:42							Regular			Needs Improvement	No							
2	25/4/2026 23:18	Miyako Isobe	Dayun Suh	2026-04-21 17:30	25	Miyako Isobe	Dayun Suh	Trial	English speaking, reading, and grammar practice. 	"Discovering the student's English level and the contents she would like to learn for her final goal, which is to study abroad. 
- Basic Self Introduction(Name, birthday, age, where from, etc.)
- Location vocabulary (Unit 1)
- Reading a dialogue and solving related questions (Textbook excerpt, dialogue unit 1)"	Good	Yes	Writing a diary entry: she enjoys keeping a diary, so this task lets her practice English in a format she already likes, while also getting insight into her current writing level.	"English Speaking, Reading & Grammar Practice
In today's lesson, we focused on assessing your daughter's current English level and understanding her learning goals as she prepares to study abroad.
Topics covered:
Basic self-introduction (name, birthday, age, hometown, etc.)
Location vocabulary (Unit 1)
Reading a dialogue and solving related questions (Textbook Unit 1)"	"She found the contents easy, especially the ""there is..."" ""there are..."" ""Here is..."" and so on, and the location vocabulary was also too easy. However, for the 1000 Basic English Words 3.pdf unit 1's vocab, she only knew 1/2 of the words confidently.

She desires to learn:
- sentence structure (How to structure them)
- How and when to use a, an, the 
- Prep for IELTS
- How to use yes or no for negative questions in English. As it differs from Japanese."		checked		
3	26/4/2026 11:39	Sarah Sugiyama	Hannah Tuffy	2026-04-26 09:00	19	Sarah Sugiyama	Hannah Tuffy	Trial	Introductions, speaking/reading/listening assessment, slides, and textbook	"Introductions - name, where you are from, and hobbies
Warm up game - ""would you rather""
Dialogue practice: 1. Science homework scenario and 2. office hours scenario (I made slides) 
Observations - speaking about thoughts and observations based on a painting. I had Sarah describe what she saw, and also making inferences.
Textbook vocabulary and drills - English Vocabulary in Use, Unit 20 (Health): pg. 46-47
Speaking confidence: I had Sarah speak about an event or topic. She spoke about her club activities at school, including track and field and Earth Sciences Club.
Recap of new terms learned: ""she/he suffers from ___"", proper nouns like ""Band-aid"" and ""Cancer"", using ""a"", ""the"", or none in sentences, different types of doctors."	Excellent	No		"I had a very pleasant time meeting Sarah! I noticed that she is very skilled in speaking, listening, and reading. We did not work on any writing today. She demonstrated advanced vocabulary and overall comprehension, and her pronunciation was pretty solid. Today, I wanted to get to know Sarah and assess her comfort level with English. The lesson was conducted almost completely English, and Sarah showed excellent performance. 

SLIDES: We started with introductions, including our name, where we are from, and our hobbies. Next, we played a warm up game with fun questions, called ""would you rather"". We also worked on 2 dialogue practice scenarios to get Sarah comfortable with speaking. I also had Sarah look at a painting, and make comments about her observations, opinions, and inferences. 

TEXTBOOK: Next, we worked on 2 textbook pages that consisted of vocabulary and drills. The drills allowed Sarah to form precise sentences as well as descriptively speaking about personal experiences. 

SPEAKING: Finally, I prompted Sarah to speak about an event or something fun. I wanted to encourage her to speak descriptively for as long as she could. Sarah did amazing on this exercise, and spoke clearly about her after school activities, such as track and field and Earth sciences club. 

At the end, we reviewed new terms that Sarah learned, and I got some input about our lesson structure. Sarah said that she enjoyed the slideshow activities that we did, as well as the textbook material. The textbook used today seemed easy for her, but she told me that it was helpful, as there was some new material she didn't know. I would like to keep using this textbook to use for ~30 mins(or more) of the lesson. She seemed to really enjoy the slideshow I made. Besides the game and picture activities, I created realistic school scenarios for dialogue practice, while sprinkling a bit of Irish culture and Irish English (since it's a bit different than U.S.).

I'm looking forward to continue working with Sarah! Thank you!"	Sarah said that she liked the textbook! It seemed easy for her, but still seemed to help her as there were some new material she didn't know. I would like to keep using this textbook to use for ~30 mins (or more)of the lesson. Besides the textbook, she seemed to really enjoy the slideshow I made. She said it was fun, so I'll keep making these for her. I will also continue to create realistic school scenarios for dialogue practice, while sprinkling a bit of Irish culture and Irish English (since it's a bit different than U.S.).  She told me that she would like to schedule again in the future, so I let her know that Petra will arrange that with her dad!		checked		
4	27/4/2026 11:22	Shinichi Fukui	Hannah Tuffy	2026-04-27 10:00	27	Shinichi Fukui	Hannah Tuffy	Trial	Getting to know the student / assessment	"Slides - 
1. Introductions - name, where you are from, hobby 
2. Warm-up question: if you could live anywhere, where would you live and why?
3. Observations - look at a picture and describe what you see
4. Scenario / Dialogue - 1. classmates 2. questions for professor
4b. Structured questions based on the dialogue reading
4c. Answered vocabulary confusions that he had
5. Assessment - TOEIC page 39 reading and listening questions
6. Textbook -  English for Everyone level 1 (later units, practiced apostrophes - too easy, and practiced directions- needs help with)
7. Short speaking practice - I had him speak about his weekend"	Excellent	Yes	Look at the textbook page (I will send it to you) about directions.	"It was a pleasure to meet you and work with you today! I noticed that you have very great comprehension with basic levels in listening and reading. My main focus for you is to help you improve speaking spontaneously in everyday situations!

You did great with the introduction, warm up question, making observations, and scenario practices. 

Words we learned:
Parrot - かもう
""applying to ~"" - 大学に出願する
""Stop by ~"" - ~来てください
""Would you mind"" - よろしいですか
""Don't mention it!"" - どういたしまして (気にしないでください）
""Research INTO / look INTO"" -  中へ調べてみる
""How are you getting along"" - 調子はどうですか？(慣れてきていますか）

Next time, we will work on dialogue practice and directions vocabulary. I will also prepare additional textbook material for us to go over. Please look at the ""directions vocab"" that we went over from the textbook (I will send a picture).

Thank you very much for your time, and I'm looking forward to our next lesson!"	"He reported that he has trouble listening to people when they speak in detail. Shin wants to improve vocabulary so that he can improve his overall listening and speaking skills in every day conversations (not really business). 

I will utilize the later units of the lvl 1 textbooks, create dialogues, use dialogues from textbook, and build his confidence in speaking."		checked		
9	30/4/2026 23:48	Miyako Isobe	Dayun Suh	2026-04-28 17:30	48	Miyako Isobe	Dayun Suh	Regular	English Grammar and Time	"Homework Check for Diary Entry and Grammar Error Check
English Grammar:
Free Grammar E-book 
- Present Simple: Be
- Possessives
- Articles
- This, That, These, Those
- some, any
How to construct a question sentence
Learned how to read the time in English"	Excellent	Yes	"- Diary entry
- Clock/Time reading practice"	In our class today, we completed a diary entry assignment along with a grammar review covering the present simple (verb “to be”), possessives, articles, demonstratives (this, that, these, those), the use of “some” and “any,” and how to construct question sentences. In addition, they learned how to read and tell the time in English, and a free grammar e-book was provided for further practice.			checked	Free_English_Grammar_eBook_Beginner_CORE.COLORED.pdf (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recEKK1AJm07dE4yB/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/attyHx9FHtbOzr4mK), Screenshot 2026-04-30 at 23.45.00.png (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recEKK1AJm07dE4yB/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/att6bbcv3PjlmEyrd)	
8	30/4/2026 23:37	Kizuki Ishida	Ashley Norton	2026-04-29 21:00	22	Kizuki Ishida	Ashley Norton	Trial	生物	"系統樹
細胞の仕組み
"	Excellent	No		"本授業では生物のはじめの、生物の進化と系統樹、さらに細胞の仕組みの作りについて学びました。
きずきさんの授業中の態度は大変よく、積極的に発言や質問もしていた。"			checked		本人持参のもの
10	1/5/2026 15:35	Tadashi Hashimoto	Tina Zheng	2026-04-30 18:15	20	Tadashi Hashimoto	Tina Zheng	Regular	EIKEN Pre-1 Reading Comprehension 	"Vocabulary check - quizzed student on vocabulary spelling and definition from last lesson; taught student differences between noun, adjective, verb
Reading comprehension practice - used 2 EIKEN style reading passages to test student's comprehension, asked student to identify topic, supporters' opinions, critics' opinions, and summarizing the passage in 3 sentences or under; gave student tips such as skipping unknown words, identifying connecting indicators like ""first"" ""for example"" ""to conclude""
Reading summarization practice - had student shorten long sentences into shorter ones, learning skills like removing irrelevant information, identifying key words 
Note taking - helped student take notes about important content from today "	Excellent	Yes	Memorize spelling and definition of today's vocabulary perfectly. 	"Today, we started with a vocabulary check to review spelling and definitions from the previous lesson, and also introduced the differences between nouns, adjectives, and verbs. We then focused on reading comprehension using EIKEN-style passages, where Tadashi practiced identifying the main topic, supporters’ and critics’ opinions, and summarizing the text in a few sentences. I also introduced strategies such as skipping unknown words and using keywords like “first” and “for example” to follow the structure more easily. We then practiced summarization by shortening longer sentences and focusing on key information.

Tadashi showed good overall reading comprehension and stayed focused throughout the lesson. He is able to understand the main ideas well, but needs more practice summarizing using academic language and filtering out less important details. We will also continue building his grammar foundation to better understand word types and sentence structure.

For homework, he should memorize the spelling and definitions of today’s vocabulary."	For next lesson: check homework, practice spelling, review and practice more reading comprehension 		checked		https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Svs7P0lCShvBNhkVJW5pK1X1VGO4PDVsh1RqEBUqkhU/edit?usp=sharing
11	1/5/2026 23:19	Tadashi Hashimoto	Alice Williams	2026-05-01 18:00	53	Tadashi Hashimoto	Alice Williams	Regular	Reading comprehension 	At the start of the lesson we briefly went through the previous lessons spelling words and their definitions. Focused on further developing reading comprehension with EIKEN style passages on the topic of homework reduction in schools. We covered identifying key information, predicting content from titles and skimming for the main idea. We practiced paraphrasing certain sentences to improve understanding/ language choice and proper structures for answers. 	Excellent	Yes	"To write and finish both the ‘for’ and ‘against’ arguments for the topic question “Should schools reduce homework?” 

- using the bullet point notes we made during the lesson to structure the paragraphs. "	"Tadashi is definitely a hard worker and does try his best. 

Given time and a moment to think, he is able to work out the correct spelling of many words. However, his main weakness is finding the appropriate words to describe definitions or explanations. Time management also appears to be a slight issue, as it takes Tadashi time to express what he wants to write or say. Expanding his vocabulary will help improve both his time management and his word choices, as his answers currently tend to use quite basic vocabulary."			checked	Image 2026-05-01 at 22.55.jpeg (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recSP5GD5cezlJgQC/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/att1VfMvupddqrGze)	
14	6/5/2026 22:16	Lee Akihiro	Alice Williams	2026-05-03 10:00	54	Lee Akihiro	Alice Williams	Trial	British English trial lesson 	No specific content covered. I assessed Akihiro’s current English level through conversations and basic English tasks. His level was higher than I expected so he completed all the tasks quickly and correctly. 	Excellent	No	N/A	Very productive and enjoyable first trial lesson! I was able to determine Akihiro's current English level and get a scope of what he does and does not know. We were also able to discuss about what he wanted to focus on in lessons which were vocabulary, pronunciation and comprehension. I plan to make future lessons focused around these key points so that Akihiro is able to meet his goals!	N/A		checked	edit (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recRv1lc7DLveS6G9/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/attXyyF8PI7MvmJNo)	https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WQAkQGmus8ALK63Akz_B8RYdahRy8Lrv/view
12	5/5/2026 22:29	Shoji Takanao	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-05 15:00	66	Shoji Takanao	Hannah Tuffy	Trial	Intro + Assessment	"- Introductions, fun warm up question, questions about current English use
- Comprehension check using TOEIC listening practice questions
- Dialogue practice 
- Role-play (explaining job)
- Textbook samples (*starred textbooks below), practice questions and exercises to see which textbook student prefers"	Excellent	No		It was a pleasure to speak with you today! Our lesson went very smoothly, and I was able to get a strong understanding of your English level and what you hope for in our future lessons. You demonstrated proficiency in your pronunciation, sentence structure/flow, vocabulary, and listening comprehension. I agree that the second textbook, "Business Partner", is an excellent fit for you. I will also try my best to prepare more dialogue practices to improve speaking fluency. Thank you very much for your time, and I am looking forward to working with you!	"- While Shoji stated that it has been a while since he studied English, he sounded very fluent and professional. Pronunciation was great, didn't pause too often, used advanced vocabulary.

- TOEIC comprehension check was pretty easy for him

- Dialogue practice was good, but he said that he would prefer to do more of these that fit his field of work (finance/accounting job, market research start up, AI in financing ?? I think)

- Likes the Business Partner textbook. However, if you have more that might suit him, please let me know!!"		checked		EBOOK TOEIC, English for Everyone Business (level 2)*, Business Partner (B2+)*, Communicating in Business*
13	6/5/2026 17:42	Takeshi Kawana	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-06 11:10	31	Takeshi Kawana	Hannah Tuffy	Trial	Introductions / Assessment	"Slideshow:

- Greetings, intro, warm up questions
- Comprehension check - questions from ""Espresso English"" and ""TOEIC EBOOK""
- Vocab check from ""4000 Essential English Words"" pg. 10
- Dialogue practice (professor and students convo)
- Textbook samples: ""English Grammar in Use"", ""English for Everyone (Business)"", and ""Speakout (Advanced)"""	Excellent	No		It was a pleasure to meet you today! During our lesson, I was able to get a better understanding of your English level. You seem to have strong foundational skills, and your speaking could definitely become even more smooth with practice. In our lessons, we will focus on strengthening your grammar and vocabulary, using dialogue, textbook, and conversation practice. I am looking forward to working with you in the future! Thank you for your time. 	"Student seemed to have great confidence in speaking English. He knows the basics, just needs a bit of improvement in speaking flow and not taking pauses. This can be improved with textbook drills and speaking practice (free talk, structured dialogue, etc.). He wants to practice everyday English so that he can speak with English speakers in travel, dance class, and more. 

- Intro - was able to speak about himself and only didn't know a few words. Took pauses but I was able to understand him. 
- Comprehension check - seemed ok! reading and comprehension strong.
- Vocab - can definitely be improved: in speaking practice, correct him afterwards, and have him write it down (or I write it down)
- Dialogue practice - he liked this! (can practice talking, and reviewing new terms that are often used in casual convo)
- Textbook samples- he liked  ""English Grammar in Use"" and ""Speakout (Advanced)"" the most. He liked the grammar explanations on middle chapters of first textbook, and he liked to speak about different topics in ""Speakout""."		checked		
15	7/5/2026 00:29	Yusuke	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-06 18:30	74	Yusuke	Hannah Tuffy	Trial	Intro/assessment	"Slideshow:

- Greetings, intro, warm up questions
- Comprehension check - questions from ""Espresso English"" and ""TOEIC EBOOK""
- Vocab check- directions
- Dialogue practice (professor and students convo)
- Textbook samples: ""English Grammar in Use"" and ""Speakout (Advanced)"""	Excellent	Yes	"Practice sounding out ""ts"" compared to ""t""
e.g. ""comment"" vs. ""comments"""	It was a pleasure to meet you today! During our lesson, I was able to get a better understanding of your English level. You seem to have strong foundational skills, and your speaking could definitely become even more smooth with practice. In our lessons, we will focus on strengthening your grammar and vocabulary using dialogue, textbook, and conversation practice. I'm happy that you're motivated to practice English again, and I'm looking forward to working with you in the future! Thank you for your time.	"Student has all the basic English skills! Knows plenty of vocab, has mastered directions such as ""behind"", ""in front of"", ""next to"", etc. Student needs help with some pronunciation, as well as speaking English without translating from Japanese in his head. Understands passive 

Yusuke really liked the dialogue practice, and would like to do more of those. He also enjoys the ""English Grammar in Use"" textbook and the ""Speakout"" textbook.

We will be focusing on speaking practice:
- using structured questions after reading dialogues (and informing him of any new words)
- grammar drills with later chapters of ""English Grammar in Use""
- vocab additions with ""4000 English Words"" textbook
- speaking in detail using prompts from ""Speakout"" "		checked		
17	8/5/2026 01:34	Yuta Sumiya	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-07 18:00	26	Yuta Sumiya	Hannah Tuffy	Trial	Introduction/assessment	"Slides:
- intro, warmup questions
- comprehension check (grammar, vocab, situational)
- dialogue practice (3 scenarios: college application, casual introduction, phone call)
- textbook samples (""Speakout"", ""English Grammar in Use"")"	Excellent	No		It was a pleasure to meet you today! During our lesson, I was able to get a better understanding of your English level as well as what you wish to improve. You seem to have strong foundational English skills, so I will focus on strengthening your speaking and listening skills. I will make sure to avoid lecture-style, and instead, focus on casual conversation. In our lessons, we will be using guided scenarios such as peaking with doctors, restaurant staff, travel occasions, friends, and more. I will also ask you questions and we can speak back and forth so that you can become more comfortable responding in detail. I am looking forward to working with you in the future! Thank you for your time. 	"- comprehension check was good, easy for him
- seemed disinterested in lecture/textbook, and he explained that he is looking for more casual conversation practice (speaking back and forth about day, etc.) --> concern: how to keep this up for an hour each time?
- wants to improve comprehension in listening, and then speaking in response
- I suggested supplementing textbook material to help his listening and speaking, but the student said I don't have to prepare that!
- instead, it would be good to do role-play scenarios like doctor's office, restaurant, friends, travel, and more. (non-business)
- wants in person, but I would prefer to stay online!"		checked		
16	7/5/2026 19:51	Tadashi Hashimoto	Alice Williams	2026-05-07 18:15	55	Tadashi Hashimoto	Alice Williams	Regular	Reading comprehension practice. (Continuation from last week) 	"Tadashi and I explored both sides of the argument, focusing on the advantages and disadvantages of reducing homework. Tadashi developed ideas about how excessive homework may increase stress, negatively affect academic performance, reduce time for hobbies and family, and potentially lead to behavioural issues in school etc. Tadashi also practiced explaining how good wellbeing outside of school can positively impact students classroom performance.

Together we wrote an exam style paragraph for the supporting argument using elevated language. Tadashi learned new words and their definitions through our use of elevated language.n"	Excellent	Yes	"Learn the correct spelling and definitions for the following words. : 

- Behavioural
- Contribute 
- Beneficial
- Scenario 
- Delay 
-Revise "	Tadashi remembered the structure and ideas from the previous lesson well and applied them confidently and correctly to today’s lesson. Despite the lesson being online, he stayed focused and contributed very well throughout! We are continuing to work on reading fluency and pronunciation of longer or unfamiliar words, but he showed great effort and engagement during the lesson!	N/A		checked	Screenshot 2026-05-07 at 19.43.56.png (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recTSXu4xyPF2eXdo/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/attFpUfzgKA9v8B3X), Screenshot 2026-05-07 at 19.44.27.png (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recTSXu4xyPF2eXdo/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/att98CKfm5WPdtO3d), Screenshot 2026-05-07 at 19.44.43.png (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recTSXu4xyPF2eXdo/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/attbQjdb7KCWajZz8)	N/A. Continuation from last week, no external resources used. 
19	10/5/2026 17:39	Tadashi Hashimoto	Hazel	2026-05-08 18:00	50	Tadashi Hashimoto	Hazel	Regular	Spelling and reading comprehension 	"1. Started the lesson with a 5 to 10 minute short introductory and ice breaker activity.
2. Tested the student on the previous spelling homework. 
3. Since Tadashi only got 2 words correct, I taught him how to write the words at least 5 times and read the words aloud after each time. I then gave him 5 minutes to memorise all the words again and tested him on the spelling. 
4. We went through one reading comprehension from Eiken official paper pre-1 (3) together. I taught him how to read the questions before reading the passage and identify important key words from the questions as well. 
5. I then asked Tadashi to do the questions himself. After marking the paper, I went through the passage with him again as I guide him on how to identify the answers by recognising the similar keywords and phrases in the questions and the passage.
"	Okay	Yes	"I assigned him the following words for spelling from Unit 6 of the 4000 Essential English Words textbook (definitions included):
Devise
Fracture
Indigenous 
Insight
Limb
Migraine
Optimism 
Quest 
"	"1. Had a quiz on the spelling homework.
2. Taught Tadashi to how to memorise again and quizzed him again (he received full marks on the second try).
3. Asked him to answer the questions for the reading comprehension.
4. Solved the answers after marking the paper and taught him how to identify key words in the passages and the questions. 
5. Gave him 8 spelling words to memorise for homework.
"	"Due to the short amount of time for the lesson, I was unable to focus on other areas. Therefore, I only gave him a little bit of homework for my first lesson with him. However, I plan on giving him more assignments to do from the next few lessons onwards.

In order for Tadashi to not forget the words, he might need to be quizzed on spelling words from pervious lessons as well. I think giving him more homework for reading comprehensions, summary and essay is also essential for him to continue practicing even without the tutor's supervision. This will allow him to incorporate the advice and methods he learnt from the lessons into his homework and practice papers.
"		checked	IMG_0738.JPG (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recAnMc9DN1dq8Zcd/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/attrgqk4hTj6D8X61), IMG_0788.JPG (https://airtable.com/appAdxLhXqRtaq618/tblyMMtwV94h0wEjp/recAnMc9DN1dq8Zcd/fldHwB1RcWWdSX33v/attEJKDfDkGIzEIaJ)	"Eiken official paper pre-1 (3) 
4000 Essential English Words"
18	10/5/2026 10:14	Sarah Sugiyama	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-09 20:00	58	Sarah Sugiyama	Hannah Tuffy	Regular	Lesson 2: Speaking, Vocabulary, & Sentence Structure - Sports and Leisure	"Greetings:
Anything fun for Golden Week?
Any weekend plans? (track meet tomorrow?)

Read Lesson Objective

Game:
2 truths and a lie (have her read the instructions)

Making Observations:
Describe a picture of a sports match in detail

Dialogue Practice:
Sports match scenario (introduced another Irish name)
Hobbies scenario

Textbook material:
English Vocabulary in Use (Unit 41- Sports and Leisure)

Challenge:
Speaking about her own experiences using the vocab we learned (3 prompts)

For next class:
Briefly looked over English Vocabulary in Use (Unit 42- Competitive Sport)"	Excellent	Yes	"Exercise 41.4 from English Vocabulary in Use (Unit 41- Sports and Leisure)

Some new words that I want Sarah to review, and practice using:
1.  ""Nerve-wracking"" (adjective): to describe something that causes anxiety or nervousness, something that is high-pressure
2.  ""Same here"": me too (「私も！」）
3.  ""Pulling a muscle"": an injury of your muscles when you pull or tear them / 「肉離れ」"	"Sarah did a great job with our lesson on Saturday night! Our main objective was to learn and practice new terms related to sports and leisure. 

We began the lesson with a warm-up game, called ""two truths and a lie"". This is a very popular icebreaker game among English speaking students in America and Europe. I had her read the instructions so that she would be able to explain them if she ever wants to play this game with someone who is unfamiliar with it. Sarah understood the directions, and played the game well! It was a fun way to start our lesson. 

Then, I had Sarah free-speak about her observations about an image. She described it as ""a soccer game"" (+more details). While that is completely correct, I let her know that in Ireland, soccer is called ""football"", and games are called ""matches"".
 
Next, we used 2 scenarios for dialogue practice. The first one was a conversation between two young girls regarding their football match that they won. I introduced another Irish name that is a little bit hard to pronounce (Saoirse - ""ceer-shuh""). There were some new words that I want Sarah to review and practice using:
- ""Nerve-wracking"" (adjective): to describe something that causes anxiety or nervousness, something that is high-pressure
- ""Same here"": me too (「私も！」）
- ""Pulling a muscle"": an injury of your muscles when you pull or tear them / 「肉離れ」

Next, we reviewed sports vocabulary words that Sarah mostly knew, then learned verbs that match those words, and practiced structuring sentences using them. (English Vocabulary in Use, Unit 41- Sports and Leisure, pp. 88-89). We did all of the drills for that unit, and Sarah improved her sentence structure/grammar for describing sports and leisure activities. (Example: I did a bit of swimming in the summer VS. I swam in the summer VS. I go swimming in the summer)
- new verbs: ""To play"", ""To do"", ""To race"", ""To run"" (""To PLAY"" is usually for a sport with a ball!)

After that, as a review, I had Sarah speak about her own experiences using the vocabulary that we used (3 prompts). Finally, we reviewed the textbook material for our next class. I assigned her homework as well:
- Exercise 41.4 from English Vocabulary in Use (Unit 41- Sports and Leisure)"	"Sarah knew a lot of the sports terms (except for ""sailing"")
The verbs were new:
- new verbs: ""To play"", ""To do"", ""To race"", ""To run"" (""To PLAY"" is usually for a sport with a ball!)

Do ""2 truths and a lie"" and ""would you rather"" again in the future to refresh her on how it works, what it's called, etc.

""Etc."" was also a new word

I think the textbook that they provide us is really good, and I like the flow of the lessons so far. I hope that I'm teaching her new things though, as I'm new to teaching and I can't tell if this is a good pace or if it's too easy?? (Maybe check in more with the student during lesson ""is this too easy?""/ challenge her more with hard questions or speaking prompts)"		checked		"Everyday Conversations (Page 62, dialogue 3-9: Hobbies)
English Vocabulary in Use (Unit 41- Sports and Leisure)
English Vocabulary in Use (Unit 42- Competitive Sport)"
20	12/5/2026 00:11	Konan Saito	Ashley Norton	2026-05-11 15:20	78	Konan Saito	Ashley Norton	Trial	English communication 	"Daily conversations 
Translating some Japanese sentences to English "	Good			"自己紹介を中心に話を広げ、自身の過去に関連する事柄を英語で表現した。
"			checked		
24	16/5/2026 21:19	Miyako Isobe	Dayun Suh	2026-05-12 17:30	67	Miyako Isobe	Dayun Suh	Regular	English Reading Listening and Writing	"4000 essential English words 1 unit 1 Words and exercise (Reading and grammar practice)
English phrases to use for small talks (to make friends)
R and L sound practice
"	Good	Yes	"Diary Entry 
Vocabulary revision"	In today's class, we mainly focused on solving exercises from the vocabulary textbook. Additionally, small talk phrases, which can be used to make new friends, were introduced to Miako to prepare for her short-term study abroad. We also practiced English pronunciation, especially on words with R and L. 			checked		4000 essential English words 1 unit 1 page 8-12
21	13/5/2026 16:13	Takeshi Kawana	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-13 13:40	76	Takeshi Kawana	Hannah Tuffy	Regular	Dialogue, Grammar, Free-Speak	"- Warm up conversations using questions:
1. What is your favorite genre of music? Why? -- Classical music, because he loves to play piano
2. What was a popular trend when you were a teenager? -- Disco clubs, one piece dresses

- Dialogue practice: 
- At the theater scenario
- Hobbies scenario 

- Textbook: ""English Grammar in Use"" Unit 27 - “could (do) and could have (done)” pg. 54
Section A & B (""could"": suggestion, possibility, or wish) 
Drill 27.1 - Which goes with which? (""could"" suggestions)

Review:
At the end, we briefly reviewed new words, new grammar, homework, and what we'll be covering next lesson."	Excellent	Yes	"今日学んだ語彙の中から、お気に入りの単語を復習してください！
1) Performance: パフォーマンス
2) Compliment: Saying something nice about someone (褒め言葉)
3) Choreography: steps/moves of a dance or performance (振り付け)
4) Talented: Very good at something (才能)
5) ""That's very kind of you"": That's so nice!
6) The arts: performance arts like dancing, singing, etc. (芸術?)
7) Midterm: 中間試験
8) ""Gonna"": I'm going to do ___. (example: ""I'm gonna go camping"")
9) Shades: 色合い (example: Shades of blue)
10) Hang: 掛ける

Additionally, please practice using ""could"" at least once a day! 
Examples) ""I could eat pancakes for breakfast"" (maybe I can), ""I could go to McDonald's for lunch"" (maybe I can), ""I could stay here all day"" (I wish)"	"You did a great job today! I had a fun time talking about music, trends, and more! I will briefly summarize our lesson.

After our warm-up questions, we did some dialogue practice including a scenario about a theater performance (musical) as well as a conversation about hobbies/vacations (Michigan, canoeing, etc.). The textbook material we covered today taught how to use the term ""could"" in a sentence. So far, we know that ""could"" can be used as a suggestion, a possibility, or a wish! Thank you so much for today, and I will see you next on 5/27! 

HOMEWORK:
今日学んだ語彙の中から、お気に入りの単語を復習してください！
1) Performance: パフォーマンス
2) Compliment: Saying something nice about someone (褒め言葉)
3) Choreography: steps/moves of a dance or performance (振り付け)
4) Talented: Very good at something (才能)
5) ""That's very kind of you"": That's so nice!
6) The arts: performance arts like dancing, singing, etc. (芸術?)
7) Midterm: 中間試験
8) ""Gonna"": I'm going to do ___. (example: ""I'm gonna go camping"")
9) Shades: 色合い (example: Shades of blue)
10) Hang: 掛ける

Additionally, please practice using ""could"" at least once a day! 
Examples) ""I could eat pancakes for breakfast"" (maybe I can), ""I could go to McDonald's for lunch"" (maybe I can), ""I could stay here all day"" (I wish)
"	"Student wants to have our next lesson on Wed, 5/27 at 11:10am. 

Next lesson plan: 
Review vocab words, and grammar from this lesson
More dialogue and free-speak questions
I will finish the rest of the ""could"" chapter, and do the remaining drills with him.
Move on to next chapter in English Grammar in Use (""must"" and ""can't"")
"		checked		"""English Grammar in Use"" Unit 27 - “could (do) and could have (done)” pg. 54
""Everyday Conversations"" - dialogue 3.5 and 3.9"
22	15/5/2026 19:30	Yuta Sumiya	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-15 12:30	84	Yuta Sumiya	Hannah Tuffy	Regular	Conversation and Roleplay	"Conversation: Asked about how he's been doing, what's new at work etc. Basic English back-and-forth convo
- talked about AI use
- He told me about his new project at work (vitamin/supplements) and how he is using AI to help market his product

Follow up questions such as: What is challenging about marketing your product? How did AI help you? What features are marketable? What kind of marketing strategies did you use?

Scenario Role-Play practice:
Restaurant in America
Etiquette, language, ""how do you want your eggs cooked""

Follow up questions about different topics:
Favorite restaurant in California? (Memphis Diner)
What else is memorable about California? (Disneyland)"	Excellent	No		"Thank you for attending our lesson today. I enjoyed speaking about various different topics with you! You convey your thoughts very clearly in English, and I'd be happy to give you more support in terms of vocabulary and conversational skills! 

今日学んだ新しい単語はこちらです。
- Humid: 蒸し暑い
- Shortly: 間もなく・すぐに
- My feet are sore: 足が痛い
- My muscles are sore: 筋肉痛
- ""Can I get you started on any drinks?"": 飲み物はいかがですか？
- Types of eggs: Sunny side up, over easy, over medium, scrambled, poached, etc.
- ”Can I do ____""/""Can I have ___"" (when ordering food): it's both acceptable!
- ""Can I have A sandwich"" じゃなくて ""can I have THE sandwich"" 

Please have a look at these words before our next lesson. We can review them again! Next time, I will prepare some practice scenarios for ""small-talk"" and talking with ""family friends""!"	"Overall, Yuta informed me that he really enjoyed this lesson format, and said that today's class was very helpful. He said that he wants to work on building up from small-talk to deeper conversations to people like relatives, family friends, and in-laws(I think?). 

Casual conversation practice, speaking about different topics, keeping the conversation going, and sounding more confident and sociable."		checked		
23	16/5/2026 00:05	Tadashi Hashimoto	Yutaka Takaku	2026-05-15 18:15	56	Tadashi Hashimoto	Yutaka Takaku	Regular		"Worked on Eiken Pre-1 reading questions from p.7 and p.10-11. Tadashi initially needed some prompting, but after guidance he was able to identify many correct answers independently and showed good intuitive understanding of the passages. He also remembered and applied strategies taught in the previous lesson, especially the “one question per paragraph” reading technique.

We also had short conversation practice about his interests and baseball activities, including Giants Academy, school baseball, and Richard Sunakawa. He was comfortable speaking about familiar topics and responded naturally.

Additionally, we practiced summary structure training using the “Haymarket Affair” reading passage from an Eiken Pre-1 exam. Although the original task was not a summarisation question, the student practiced compressing each paragraph into short bullet points to build summarisation skills.

Examples included:
- Workers protested after police killed strikers
- Laws existed but were not enforced well
- Newspapers increased public anger
- Event became symbol for labor rights

The goal was to strengthen:
- identifying core ideas
- concise information compression
- paragraph-by-paragraph understanding

Good overall performance. Tadashi showed stronger reading comprehension once given structure and prompting, and demonstrated good retention of previous lesson strategies. His summarisation ability was especially promising, as he could identify important information and reduce paragraphs into concise key points effectively. Speaking ability was more natural when discussing familiar interests."	Excellent	Yes	"Review and memorise the following vocabulary words:

- bilingual
- fashionable
- participant
- surprised
- foreign
- tense

In addition, to finish the bullet-point summarisation of the Haymarket Affair Pre-1 Reading."	Today we focused on Eiken Pre-1 reading comprehension and summary skills. Tadashi showed good improvement in identifying important information from reading passages, especially after applying strategies learned in previous lessons. A particularly positive point was his ability to summarise long paragraphs into short key ideas using bullet points, which is an important foundation for future summary writing and reading accuracy. He also participated well in conversation practice when discussing familiar topics such as baseball and school activities.	Student responds very well to structured reading guidance and paragraph-by-paragraph analysis. Summary compression training appears highly effective for him and should continue regularly. Good retention of previous lesson techniques. Speaking becomes noticeably more natural around familiar/personal topics. Continue reinforcing evidence-based reading strategies and concise summarisation.		checked		Eiken Pre-1 reading materials (p.7, p.10-11)
25	17/5/2026 11:01	Sarah Sugiyama	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-17 09:00	88	Sarah Sugiyama	Hannah Tuffy	Regular	Vocabulary, Reading, and Grammar (Competitive sports)	"Game:
""Who am I?"" - animal guessing game, starting with only yes/no questions, and later using open-ended questions.

Reviewing Homework:
Sarah might have forgotten to do her homework, but we reviewed it in class and she did great!

Reviewing last unit overall:
She got all of the answers correct. When I asked her if there was any parts she was confused about, she said it's all good. 

Read lesson objective and ask question:
What is a competitive sport?
What are these? (picture of medal and trophy)

Textbook material:
English Vocabulary in Use, pg. 90-91(Competitive sports)

Reading material about different types of competitions, with my own questions (Check for any confusion)
Vocabulary - winning/ losing, and keeping score
Sports report reading (3 different athletes)
Vocab to describe an athlete (and free talk about favorite athlete/team)
Drills/exercises on pg. 91
Free talk questions at bottom of pg. 91 (Q.2, Q.4, Q.5)
Homework review"	Excellent	Yes	Page 91: Crossword exercise 42.4 of English Vocab in Use textbook	"Sarah did a great job today talking about different types of sports competitions! Our lesson today consisted of a lot of reading, such as reading about different types of competitive sports and reading articles about famous athletes. We were able to learn new vocabulary words and grammar points to properly speak about scores, world records, winning, and more. We also did multiple drills as well as speaking practice about her own thoughts and experiences. Outstanding job today!

Some of the words that were NEW for Sarah today:
- consecutive: in a row
- league: 
- 2-0 (two NIL): ""nil"" instead of zero in UK/Ireland
- Draw: same score, to be tied 
- Defeated: to beat another team 
- score vs. result: ""score"" is used to describe points DURING the game, whereas ""result"" is used at the end
- Lead/leading: to have the top score DURING the competition (haven't won yet, but might win)
- Achieved: to have accomplished(done) something that is difficult or impressive
- Gave up (in sports) :to stop playing for a short amount of time, or forever
- Superb: Amazing, outstanding, very skilled
- ""e.g."": for example 

We also reviewed some grammar (conjugating, filling in the blanks, etc.). Sarah did very good with the drills from the textbook as well as the questions I asked her. Please have her do the crossword at the bottom of page 91 in the textbook before our next class!"	Note to self- make sure to review this unit using the same strategy (in our next class): check hw, ask questions, fill in the blanks, ask for any questions or confusions.  		checked		English Vocabulary in Use 
26	17/5/2026 19:59	Shoji Takanao	Hannah Tuffy	2026-05-17 18:00	79	Shoji Takanao	Hannah Tuffy	Regular	Vocabulary and discussion based on Video about AI use	Today, me and Shoji looked at the contents of a YouTube video that explained how to efficiently use AI. Shoji prepared a document including an English written script, a Japanese translation of the script, and a chart of words. We focused on the highlighted words, as well as a discussion prompt and the vocab word chart. Shoji highlighted words that were confusing in meaning or use. Many of them were metaphors, such as "scaling the biggest myth", and "turning tiny knobs", some were phrases such as "prompting away", as well as some complex words such as "well-rounded" and "incomprehensible". I explained the meanings of these words, and gave examples as well as instructions on how to properly use those words. Shoji also prepared materials for discussion, regarding AI use in the workforce, everyday life, universities, and more. We were able to conduct a formal discussion which included the subjects/words Shoji wasn't initially sure of. We also looked at a chart of additional vocabulary words that Shoji had heard of, but was not completely confident in using. We were able to clarify those words. Finally, we went over a topic we can further discuss in our upcoming class. 	Excellent	No		"Thank you so much for attending today's class! I had a really enjoyable time discussing different aspects of AI and its usage in the modern world. As for the words we looked at, I will send you my definitions so you can look back at them as needed. I really appreciate you for preparing materials, and I look forward to speaking with you again!

1. Prompting away - freely giving various prompts to AI 

Have you heard of the term, “Ask away!”?
→ “__(verb)__ away!” is basically saying, “Go ahead an __(verb)__!” 

So, when you add “-ing”, it describes an action that people do continuously/freely.

examples) 
asking away = to keep asking freely
chatting away = to continuously talk

2. Let us scale the biggest myth

Myth = a common belief that is actually not true. A common misconception.
“Let us scale the biggest myth” → let us disprove this misconception about AI.

Scale, in this case, means to metaphorically climb over, or overcome. (scaling a mountain)
OVERCOMING the myth. 

3. Pointy ears- 尖った耳

4. Incomprehensible 
To comprehend is to understand 
Comprehensible is something that can be understood.
→ So INcomprehensible is extremely hard, or impossible to understand.

Comparing it to ""insane""
Insane just means crazy, so ""incomprehensible"" holds more meaning, as something that is extremely difficult to understand or do.
ex) Your actions were insane = What you did is crazy    VS.      Your actions are incomprehensible = I can't even begin to understand why you did that

Incomprehensible scale → an amount SO big that we can’t even comprehend it
That's why AI does for us.

5. Turning tiny knobs
 A metaphor. Like turning a knob on a machine, a speaker, a stove system, etc. (control knobs)
 Adjusting carefully until they get it right.

6. Clicks into place - starts to make a lot of sense in your head 
Like a snap or a lightbulb

7. A new one drops every few weeks 
→ “Drops” means for something new to come out, or be announced.  (not literally/physically dropping)

example) “Uniqlo dropped a new collaboration with Ghibli”

So, he is explaining that a new AI software is released every few weeks. (such as once in 3 weeks)

8. It did not look it up
“It” being the AI tool, and “look it up” means to search it up online. 

So, instead of using the internet to find the answer, the AI tool used patterns to predict it (the answer).

9. Well-rounded
To be good quality in many different ways, and offers the best performance

People can be “well-rounded” as well. For example, jobs will most likely search for well-rounded, dependable people.

10. Constraints make the output sharper
Constraints - limits
In this case, putting limits on your prompts makes the result clear, specific, and of better quality.
(as in telling the AI, ""this is what I DON'T want you to do""/""Please DON'T _____"")

11. Watermark
A logo or graphic that obstructs a digital file so that it cannot be stolen by others or plagiarized.
ex) paparazzi photos, artwork, stock images, etc. "	Shoji asked how much to pay, so please email him regarding this! Also, he said that he would like to meet again on Sunday afternoon, I believe in two weeks? He said he will send an email about this. 		checked		"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MRDlEtoqSd0&t=436s&pp=ugUHEgVlbi1VUw%3D%3D 

and Shoji's document"
